1. What images would you include aboard Voyager to represent humanity if the
Voyager spacecraft were leaving today?

2. What sounds/music?
Frankie Knuckles, You Make Me Feel, full 9:14 cut.

3. What information do you think should be included?
Uh see #6 below. I think that there are certainly poetic uses to trying to
communicate w/ something like Voyager, & it's a nice exercise for humans to
think about what defines us, but it's pretty much a useless way to communicate
over interstellar distances.

4. Do you think life is rare or common in the universe?

It's clearly happened at least once, and seems to have happened quick-ish
(within hundreds of megayears after Earth was cool enough to support liquid
water). Unfortunately this doesn't statistically mean that we can draw
conclusions about whether or not life is generically "easy" or "hard" to get
from typical conditions on a just-formed planet
(http://www.pnas.org/content/109/2/395.full). Also, it apparently took a
long-long time (like ~2Gyr) for life to go from single- to multi-cellular.

There's not yet any predictive framework for understanding life's emergence.
My impression is that some aspects of it are well understood -- e.g., how
to get complex organic molecules from simple ones (see Miller-Urey expt).
However much is still being discovered, e.g., how to get self-replicators 
from complex organics (google Jeremy England's stat mech approach). There are
many gaps remaining, and I don't know enough about this effort to identify 
specifically where they are.

While we have basically no idea how rare or common life is in the universe,
the _awesome_ news of the past ~5 years is that we've learned how common rocky
planets in habitable zones are. (I'm assuming you know what "habitable zone",
equivalent to "goldilocks zone" in these discussions, means. More on how common 
below). This is super important as a "next step" in working away at putting 
actual numbers to the Drake equation.

As you can read on wikipedia, this Eqn was focused on intelligent 
civilizations releasing radio waves. Another approach to SETI is to look for 
atmospheric biosignatures. On Earth, molecular oxygen composes ~20% of our 
air because plants and photosynthetic bacteria put it there! It would otherwise
react and disappear quickly. So if we manage to do one of these measurements of
a neighboring exoplanet, we might have a strong reason to think that life is on
it.

Currently the best way to do this is by observing planets where we get a 
chance alignment of the planetary system so that the planet passes in front 
of the disk of the host star (a "transit"). We look at the spectrum of the 
entire system (since we typically cannot resolve the planet), and during the 
transit some of the star's light passes through the atmosphere of the planet, 
and hits our telescope. This leave an imprint on the spectrum that we can 
observe (in effect by seeing the apparent size of the transit signal grow & 
shrink across the observed colors). For instance, in a "hot Jupiter" -- a 
Jupiter-sized planet orbiting its star every couple of days -- this has led 
to the detection of atomic sodium and potassium in their atmospheres. The 
technique is called "transmission spectroscopy".

So one reason to care about rocky habitable planets is because we stand at 
least a chance of studying their atmospheres and detecting biosignatures. For 
truly Earth-like planets this will not likely happen for at least a few decades.
However there's a long (*long long*) shot that this might work in select
cases with JWST (see
http://www.space.com/22648-drake-equation-alien-life-seager.html).

The point is that if we want a good empirical answer to this question of how 
rare/common life is, we need to make a huge observational effort to study the 
atmospheres of a large sample of Earth-like planets in habitable zones.
This stands a much better chance of working than say, radio SETI, because it
makes no assumptions concerning intelligence or technology, & instead only
assumes that this life could source out-of-equilibrium atoms&molecules to the 
atmospheres of other planets. (The downside: it's much harder).

So the more pressing questions are:
i) Where are the Earth-like planets? ii) How common are they? iii) How do we 
build the telescope?

Answer to i) is: probably orbiting main-sequence stars. Fortunately these are
common and easy to detect and mostly have masses comparable-to or less-than our
Sun. Since most stars are a good deal less luminous than our sun, which means that 
their habitable zones are much closer to the stars. The possible effects on
life are debated (google: M dwarf habitability, + Centauri Dreams blog, + the 
recent proxima centauri discussion).
It might be hard to make HZ planets orbiting M dwarfs habitable b/c i) stellar
evolution indicates that they're cooked for the first ~billion years, possibly 
evaporating off useful things like water ii) they're tidally locked to the star 
(as the moon is to Earth) which makes for interesting but perhaps not
impossible-for-life-developing weather. iii) Huge X-ray flux (M dwarf magnetic 
fields are strong b/c of their fully convective interiors, which causes 
processes to happen in their magnetospheres that emits the X-rays). Given how 
X-rays mess with biology, this might be bad. Who knows.

Answer to ii) depends on whether or not you think planets can be habitable
around M dwarfs. If so, you're in luck because small rocky planets are more 
common about M dwarfs than about sun-like stars. The specific numbers are 
still being worked out, but Dressing & Charbonneau 2015 say something like 
0.1-0.2 Earth sized planets per M dwarf habitable zone.

What in my opinion is the most comprehensive paper on the topc is Burke+ 2015
ApJ, who only looks at G & K dwarfs. He gets about 0.1, but you can look at his
Figure 17 & see that as low as 0.01 "Earth-like" planets per G/K dwarf (in the
right period and radius range) is reasonable.

Let's rewrite the Drake eqn as follows:

N: # of planets on which we could confirm (or put upper limits on the
  abundances of) biosignatures within ~100 years.
N_star: # of stars amenable to observation (likely requirements include being in
  the Milky Way, perhaps within ~5kpc being optimistic, being not too active in 
  terms of flares/activity, perhaps caveats about binaries being factors of 2).
F_HZ: fraction of the observed stars that have "Earth-like HZ planets" (radii within 
  say 20% of Earth's, periods the same).
F_LIFE: fraction of Earth-like HZ planets on which life exists now
F_BIOSIG: fraction of Earth-like HZ planets on which life develops on which we
  could detect a biosignature gas.

and

N = N_star * F_HZ * F_LIFE * F_BIOSIG.

(Note I'm neglecting the "lifetime of the civilization" by sucking it into
F_LIFE)

The MW has ~1e11 stars. Maybe 1/10 are ameanble to observation on the 100 yr
timescale (this requires a big telescope, like bigger than LUVOIR. But 100
years).

F_HZ from Burke or Dressing is like 1/10 (1/100 if pessimistic, like 1/5 if
optimistic).

F_LIFE is a big unknown.

F_BIOSIG, if we fund the right telescopes, and define "detect" to mean put some
reasonable upper bound on the abundance of a given species that we think is a
biosignature, might also be in the 1/10 to 1/100 range.

Plugging in numbers, F_LIFE would have to be 1 in a million for this search to
wind up with nothing. It might actually be that low. I don't know. However even 
if it is, and we did this search, and came up with nothing, we get this
interesting upper-bound on the fraction of Earth-like HZ planets (in the MW) that 
have life now.

If it were that rare, I think it'd be pretty interesting in its own right.

Finally, for answer to iii) google "LUVOIR". They have a great website.


5. If common, why the eerie silence? Why haven't we heard from anyone?

* Space is big. Getting places is expensive (I mean this in terms of energy
  cost, which to date doesn't have many plausible workarounds)

* Technology (& intelligence) overlaps for a tiny fraction of species
  timeframes. We started using stone tools ~5e6 years ago, hit behavioral
  modernity ~5e4 yrs ago, and figured out radio ~100 yrs ago. Attempts at
  modern radio-SETI have focused on radio communication. I'd argue that if in
  the next 1000 years we found nothing better than radio to communicate over
  interstellar distances, it'd be _more surprising_ than if we found something
  that made radio communication attempts seem primitive.

* Great filter. E.g., nuclear war -> nuclear winter; accidental black hole
  creation; runaway viruses; solar flares (a la Carrington event); asteroids +
  ensuant dust kickoff and associated greenhouse effect; gamma ray bursts;
  major climate change cycles (consequences of many of the above); failed
  geoengineering projects; unrestrained AI; runaway economic failures, ...

* They're busy doing other things. Space travel & communication are expensive.
  Talking over reasonable distances takes forever. Maybe they're funding big
  telescopes to detect biosignatures b/c they realized it was more robust.

See e.g., https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7cidUaUCb5M.


6. It has been said that if the Voyager spacecraft are ever intercepted,
humanity will be a distant memory already. Do you think that's true? 

Yes. Humanity development timelines are much much shorter than any realistic 
estimate of the probability of Voyager spacecraft getting close enough to 
anything interesting that might detect it. (Monitoring your local neighborhood 
at the precision required to detect them is expensive. They won't reach the 
star they're pointed at for many thousands of years. "Humanity" as we think of
it today will almost certainly be much further along the genetic modification / 
silicon-symbiosis by then).


7. Do you think we're worthy of being contacted? 

...

8. Do you think humans, as a species, are fundamentally good? Or are we just
out for our own best interests? 

"Fundamentally good" neglects the context of "good & bad" being ideas that we
made up. That said, IMO might as well keep doing interesting things.
